What is MongoDB?
MongoDB is a document-oriented NoSQL database used for high volume data storage. MongoDB is a database that came into light around the mid-2000s. It comes under the
category of a NoSQL database.This kind of DBMS uses dynamic schemas that mean that you can create records without first defining the structure, such as the fields
or the types and their values.MongoDB allows you to change the structure of records, which we call documents by adding new fields or deleting existing ones.


What is MySQL?
MYSQL is a popular and widely used DBMS system. The name is taken from the girl name My, who is the daughter of the co-founder Michael Widenius. The source code of MYSQL 
is available under the GNU GPL. The project is owned and maintained by Oracle Corporation.It is an RDBMS (Relational Database Management System) and works primarily on 
the relational database model. It makes database administration easier and more flexible.In MySQL, you need to pre-define your database schema based on your requirements
and set up rules that help you to govern the relationships between fields in your tables.


Key Difference Between MongoDB and MySQL
MongoDB represents data as of JSON documents whereas MySQL represents data in tables and rows.
In MongoDB, you don’t need to define the schema while in MySQL you need to define your tables and columns
MongoDB doesn’t support JOIN but MySQL supports JOIN operations.
MongoDB uses JavaScript as query language while MySQL uses the Structured Query Language (SQL).
MongoDB is an ideal choice if you have unstructured and/or structured data with the potential for rapid growth while MYSQL is a great choice if you have
structured data and need a traditional relational database.
If most of your services are cloud based MongoDB is the best suited for you but If data security is your priority then MYSQL is the best option for you.



Why Use MongoDB?
Here are the main reasons for using MongoDB:
MongoDB is very flexible and adaptable to real business world situations and requirements.
Queries can be made to return certain fields within documents.
MongoDB supports field, range-based query, regular expression, etc. for searching the data from the stored data.
MongoDB is a very easy DBMS system that can easily scale up or down.
MongoDB helps you to uses internal memory for storing the working temporary datasets for which it is much faster.
MongoDB offers primary and secondary indexes on any field.
MongoDB supports the replication of the database.
You can use MongoDB as a file storage system which is known as a GridFS.
MongoDB offers various methods to perform aggregation operations on the data like aggregation pipeline, map-reduce or single objective aggregation commands.
MongoDB allows you to store any type of file which can be any size without effecting our stack
MongoDB basically uses JavaScript objects in place of the procedure.
MongoDB supports special collection type like TTL (Time-To-Live) for data storage which will expire at a certain time
The dynamic database schema used in MongoDB is called the JSON
Indexes can be created to improve the performance of searches within MongoDB. Any field in a MongoDB document can be indexed.
Replication – MongoDB can provide high availability with replica sets
MongoDB can run over multiple servers, balancing the load and/or duplicating data to keep the system up and running in case of hardware failure.





Why use MySQL?
Here are some important reasons for using MYSQL:
Supports features like Master-Slave Replication, Scale-Out
It supports Offload Reporting, Geographic Data Distribution, etc.
Very Low overhead with MyISAM storage engine when used for read-mostly applications
Support for memory storage engine for frequently used tables
Query Cache for repeatedly used statements
You can easily learn and troubleshoot MySQL from different sources like blogs, white papers, and books.

