I started a book Beginning MERN Stack_ Build and Deploy a Full Stack MongoDB, Express, React, Node.js App-Independently published (2021) by grem lim .
Here are few of the important and new things i learnt today.

The MERN stack is a popular stack of technologies for building a modern Single Page Application. MERN stands for MongoDB, Express, React and Node.js
Node.js is one of the most popular server-side frameworks that allow us to execute JavaScript code in a web server.
- Express is a web application framework for Node.js which makes application development in Node easier and faster. Node and Express
together form the middle-tier web server of the stack.
- MongoDB is a NoSQL database which stores data persistently in the form of collections and documents.
- React is a JavaScript frontend library to build user interfaces.


MERN is derived from the popular MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express,
Angular, Node) where instead of using the Angular frontend framework, we
use React. Another popular variant is the MEVN where we use Vue as the
frontend. These frontends make up Single Page Applications (SPAs) which
avoid reloading the page entirely and just fetches relevant portions of the
page from the server to display new content.


MONGODB::

What is NoSQL database?
NoSQL databases in contrast are often called non-relational databases, where
NoSQL means anything that isn ’ t an SQL (see how it infers the popularity
of SQL?). It might seem like NoSQL is a protest over SQL but it actually
refers to a database not structured like a spreadsheet, i.e. less rigid than SQL
databases.

How is mongoDB NoSQL?
The architecture of MongoDB is a NoSQL database which stores information
in the form of collections and documents. MongoDB stores one or more
collections. A collection represents a single entity in our app, for example in
an e-commerce app, we need entities like categories, users, products. Each of
these entities will be a single collection in our database.


Similar concepts in relational databases and MongoDB::
- a table in a relational database would compare to a collection in
MongoDB.
- each row in a table (in a relational database) can be thought of as a
document in a collection (in MongoDB).
- a join operation in SQL can be done with $lookup in MongoDB.
- instead of foreign keys, we utilize reference in MongoDB.



Documents look a lot like JSON objects with various properties (though they
are technically Binary JSON or BSON). An example of a collectiondocument
tree is shown below:
Database
→ Products collection
→ Product document
{
price: 26,
title: "Learning Node",
description: "Top Notch Development book",
expiry date: 27-3-2020
}


What is BSON vs JSON?
JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. BSON stands for Binary JavaScript Object Notation.
JSON data contains its data basic in JSON format. BSON gives extra datatypes over the JSON data.

Does MongoDB use BSON, or JSON? MongoDB stores data in BSON format both internally, and over the network,
but that doesn't mean you can't think of MongoDBas a JSON database. Anything you can represent in JSON can be
natively stored in MongoDB, and retrieved just as easily in JSON.








